Dai and Popp: [roaring]
I told you, it's no use!
Get off of me!
[pained grunt]
True Vearn [thought]:
Something isn't right...
Have these two completely
lost their minds?
They don't have any
hope of winning this.
Whatever they try,
it's too late.
True Vearn [thought]:
Whether I live or die,
the Cores will detonate.
It's pointless to attack.
Their bodies are broken...
There's no way left for
them to stop this...
And yet they persist.
True Vearn [thought]:
Look at them...
They're mindless -
like the undead!
It doesn't make sense...
How are they able
to rise again?
Is it like Popp said?
Are humans truly
creatures that possess
an unfathomable drive
to stand and fight
for their puny lives?
That's enough.
Don't touch me,
you disgusting worm!
True Vearn: Answer me...
Why do you still persist
with these futile antics?
Even if you defeat me,
the countdown's begun.
Popp: Maybe not, but if you go
down, the barrier might too.
Once that's gone,
we'll get out of here and
go freeze the other Pillars.
I'd say it all works
out perfectly.
You got a problem with that?
Begone!
How did...
That worked?
I guess I finally got
the hang of your Phoenix.
Oh, what?.
Don't act so surprised.
You've been using
that one way too much.
You got outsmarted.
Wow, that must make
me a genius or something.
Dai: You're brilliant, Popp -
but don't let it
go to your head.
We're not done!
True Vearn [thought]:
It's stuck?
Dai [thought]:
My sword...
Vearn can't pull it out!
Is it doing that on purpose?
Dai [thought]: If Vearn heals
all three of his hearts,
he'll be able to regenerate
his arm, and then he'll use
the Demonic Guard of Heaven
and Earth again!
My sword is stopping that.
If this was hopeless,
Vearn wouldn't be so desperate!
Nobody else has given up...
Not my sword or my friends...
So I won't either.
I'm not giving up, Vearn.
Never!
Then say goodbye, you fool!
Popp: Dai!
You have exhausted
my patience.
I've been far too generous.
I realize that now.
You humans are perhaps the most
intolerable obstacle I face...
More than all the other
creatures together.
If you insist...
on clinging to such an
utterly preposterous dream...
then I won't bother
drawing this out.
True Vearn: I'll
ignore the countdown
and hit the Pillar below
us with my Magic Power...
True Vearn: You'll watch
as your pathetic kingdoms burn!
This time, I'm going
to make you give up hope.
I'll tear it out
of you myself!
Crocodine: [frustrated roar]
No, no! Move! Let me at him!
Hyunckel: If only
we could do something...
Anything...
Dai and Popp are fighting
so far beyond their limits...
Avan: What sort of
friends would we be
if we didn't fight with
all our might as well?
Maam: We didn't come all this
way just to watch, did we?
Leona: Please... I can't
take this anymore.
Let us move! Please, gods...
Let at least one
of us help them....
I'm begging you. Please...
Let us out of here!
W-What? B-But, how...
H-How can this be -
Th-The Eyes...
It's impossible...
It's impossible!
All: [roaring]
Dai: He's... He's scared.
Vearn's actually scared!
Popp: Of course he is, pal.
It's a miracle.
He hates those.
True Vearn:
A miracle?! Absurd!
There's no such thing!
There's got to be
a rational explanation.
The Eyes simply couldn't
move of their own accord...
True Vearn [thought]: Somewhere,
someone who wields great power
must be controlling them and
trying to make a fool out of me!
The only question is...
Where are you hiding?
I suspected as much!
O-Ow...
Leona! You're -
I-It worked.
True Vearn: So this
was your doing.
Bravo, Princess.
I must admit, you
continue to impress.
A royal title may
be superficial,
but to wield enough
Magic Power to control
the Eyes is another
matter entirely...
I will not
underestimate you again.
Leona [thought]:
Wait a minute...
Seriously?
There's no way I have
that kind of power.
I didn't do this...
If... If there's
anybody who could
make such a miracle
happen... Could it be?
That... That's
the Tear of the Gods!
Huh?
Both: Huh?!
I don't believe it. You had
such a powerful thing?
Don't tell me
you've been carrying
that around with
you all along...
Wh-Where did you...
Where did you get that?
G-Give it here, this instant!
Leona!
Well, well...
If it isn't the
bothersome little Slime
who's been traveling
with your party.
Dai: G-Gomechan?!
True Vearn: This thing...
Both: [worried gasps]
This cursed, tiny thing...
Stop it!
What's the matter
with you? Let him go!
Yeah, that's right!
You've really
lost it, Vearn -
what's the mighty
Dark King losing his head
over a single
Slime for, huh?!
You really don't know
what this is, do you?
It may look like one,
but it isn't a Slime.
No. As a matter of fact,
it's not even a monster.
Huh?!
True Vearn: What it
actually is... is an item.
A living item, created by
the gods themselves.
In the Underworld, it's known
as the "Tear of the Gods."
It is said the gods bestowed it
with a bit of their own power,
making it capable of granting
the wish of whoever holds it,
Since its creation,
it has threatened to
topple the balance between
the Trio of Worlds
time and again.
For it allows the
powerless to suddenly wield
forces beyond their
wildest dreams.
You're lying!
I know it. Gomechan's
been my friend
for as long as I can remember.
He's been by my side ever
since we we first met
back on Dermline Island.
We've been through
everything together!
Make no mistake,
I'm telling you the truth.
I don't know why
it's taken this form,
but only the omnipotence
of the gods could break
the Magic Power sealing your
friends into those jewels.
I assure you,
this is no creature -
it's the Tear of the Gods.
Now it makes sense
why my supposedly
invincible Dark Army was
driven back this far.
The Dragon Knight
and the Tear together...
Both "Legacies of
the Gods" that courted
the Heavens themselves
in your favor.
It was their miraculous power
that got you through absolute
peril over and over...
That's how you've survived,
after everything I've done.
Leona: You're wrong. That's
not why we're still here.
It might be true... that
Gomechan's strange power...
has helped us more than a few
times, I won't argue with that.
Except...
we didn't rely on miracles as
though we were using an item.
Every time he saved us,
it was something small.
Sometimes, it was just
the smallest gesture.
He may be an item, but I'm
certain that he has a soul.
I believe it was
Gomechan who helped us!
With that tiny body,
using all his might.
Look, he's
completely drained...
Put him down.
Please, you know you
don't have to do this.
He's not a threat!
You don't have to
hurt him, Vearn. Please!
I suppose you're right.
The wishes it's granted so far
have all certainly
been small in nature.
An ordinary item
could do that much...
and it is no
threat like this...
True Vearn: However...
That's merely
because you haven't
learned how to use it!
And it will
recover soon enough.
Now that you know
its true power...
No, don't!
True Vearn: I'm afraid
I have no choice...
I can't just leave it be!
True Vearn [thought]:
Shatter, you vile thing.
Like dust in the wind.
The Tear of the Gods can't
be left in human hands -
they don't deserve it!
That's right! Not even a
single fragment can remain!
Gomechan, no!
It's Dermline Island!
Dai: It's Dermline Island!
Gomechan: That's right
Dai. We're back.
This is where it
all started.
Where you and I first met.
The island of our memories.
Wait, Gomechan...
You can talk?
So that means....
It was true, wasn't it?
Popp said when he was traveling
between life and death...
He heard your voice and
it guided him back to us.
So, uh, where are we really?
Gomechan: We're inside
your consciousness.
Time moves differently here
than in the outside world.
From our perspective,
it's stopped altogether.
Dai: Whoa. No kidding?
Say, ah, Gomechan...
It's not true, is it?
That you're an item
made by the gods?
Vearn made that up, right?
Gomechan: I'm sorry.
It's true, I... I am
the Tear of the Gods.
C'mon, there's...
There's no way
you're some item.
We've been friends
for so long...
Ever since I was
really little.
Why... Why didn't
you tell me sooner?
I've always known there was
something different about me...
but I only just learned
the truth for myself.
The ancient tomes say that
when the gods created
the Surface World,
they shed a single tear for
its weak, suffering creatures.
From that tear came a living
item, imbued with their power.
It's the only item of its
kind in the entire world,
and will grant the wishes
of whoever takes hold of it.
Now I know...
that's what I truly am.
I... I'm sorry.
N-No, it's okay.
I'm just a little
surprised is all.
Honestly, it doesn't really
matter what you are either way -
it's who you are.
Item or not, you're one
of our closest friends.
And you truly are the type
of person I thought you were.
I'm glad I granted your
wish all those years ago.
"Granted my wish?"
What do you mean?
You probably don't remember.
You were pretty young then.
The reason the Tear
of the Gods has a soul
is so it can recognize an evil
wish and refuse to grant it.
After granting the last
wish of my previous form,
I reincarnated
on Dermline Island.
I believe it was
chosen by the fates
because it's one of the
purest places in the world.
Dai: Pure? An island
full of monsters?
O-Oh, I get it...
Not every monster's bad, and not
every human's a good person.
I suspect the rumors
of the Golden Metal Slime
may be a misinterpretation
of the true legend
of the Tear of the Gods.
To avoid the greedy souls who
followed that distorted myth,
I needed to go
somewhere remote...
Far away from
human corruption...
And that's where I met you.
But, I don't...
Think back.
Think way back, Dai.
That's it, try to remember.
Long, long ago.
It'll come to you. Keep going.
Even further back.
Who's there?
Don't be afraid,
I won't hurt you.
See? It's safe.
A Golden Slime.
Will you be my friend?
Gomechan: There you go.
Do you see it now?
In a way,
that's how I was born.
Even then, I could tell
that your heart was pure.
Your wish let me become me.
Then you...
You mean that y-you...
You granted...
You granted my wish
to be my friend.
And that's why...
you've always
stuck by my side?
Dai: All this time...
All this time...
you've been granting
me that wish...
through everything
we've done....
Oh, Gomechan...
It's time...
Now. We have to say goodbye.
Gomechan, wait...
Gomechan: Don't worry.
Life moves in cycles.
Soon I'll take
my next incarnation.
Only, before I return, my power
will need to regenerate.
It'll take as long as it
did to grant the wish...
Which means it will be over
a decade until I'm back.
And when I do arrive,
I'll be starting over.
But my memories will carry
on in you and your friends.
And, I... I won't
remember you or any of it.
Th-That's my...
That's my one true regret.
Gomechan... You don't...
It's all right.
Let me go. I was almost
out of power anyway.
During this great adventure
with you and the others...
I've been granting everybody's
wishes without realizing it.
I guess I couldn't
keep doing that forever,
even if I wanted to.
That might be why
I got so small.
But it's okay.
It was worth it.
We did some good together...
And I truly... couldn't ask...
for anything else.
So, thank you, Dai...
N-No! Don't go. Please...
Please Gomechan. Please!
Don't forget me. You can't!
Gomechan: Lastly...
My dear friend... for you...
and everyone who holds a place
in that golden heart of yours...
I'll try to use
the last of my power.
Tell me. What would
you wish for?
What can I grant you
before I have to leave?
A-A wish?
Well, I... I guess...
What I'd wish for
the most right now...
would be... for all
our hearts to unite.
If I... If I could unite
the hearts and minds of...
every single person
in every kingdom...
Unite the whole world?
Not for long - only
a few seconds.
Like when Merle
got a vision..
If we could do
that on a bigger scale,
we could warn everyone and
tell them how
to freeze the Cores.
And then, maybe...
just maybe...
I think it's worth a try.
I'll give this
everything I've got...
But if it doesn't work,
I hope you can forgive me.
Here we go.
Wish me luck, Hero.
Goodbye, Dai. I'll miss you.
Dai: No wait - Gomechan!
Not yet... Not now!
Gomechan - no!
True Vearn: Yes, there's
nothing to do now but watch.
The pillars will
detonate any moment.
No miracles this time.
No last-minute gambles.
No hidden powers.
No hope.
Deroline: Get up, Dai.
On your feet!
Deroline: Your thoughts
have reached us.
We can see you lying on
your belly up there.
He might have to brave this
frostbitten wasteland,
but there's a Hero
on his way to help!
And that's me!
[chuckling]
Dai [thought]: The wish...
It... It came true!
We all heard your
voice at the same time!
Everyone you know must have!
By the way, do you see any
treasure in that palace?
Because if you do,
we've got first dibs!
Masopho was right - that
slime of yours was valuable!
Told you we should've
captured him!
We'd have made a fortune!
Can it, all of you!
Saving the world pays, too!
Apollo: Can you hear me, Dai?
Apollo: This is Apollo.
I'm already freezing
the Pillar at Valge Island!
Where should I head next?
Marin: Marin here.
I'm taking care of the
Pillar in Western Papnica.
We can stop this.
Don't give up!
We just need a little longer.
King Romos: Dai...
We're all with you.
I feel... the thoughts of
people around the world...
I hear all of them...
It's incredible....
The whole world -
United as one!
Popp: I hear them, too...
Princess?
I do! I can hear voices
from around the world!
They're freezing all
the Pillars. We can do it!
True Vearn: Nonsense!
Your minds are obviously
playing tricks on you.
Hey, Merle?
You heard it too, right?!
Tell me we aren't just
hearing things. Is it real?
I heard it. It's real, Popp!
Everyone else...
Everyone else is saying
they can hear it, as well.
All right... All right!
That's enough!
You're rambling like fools.
You're losing it.
Voices from all around
the world, promising rescue?
You have clearly lost
your grip on reality.
W-What... What is this light?!
Dai: It's Gomechan.
Right before his final moment,
he granted me one last wish.
To unite the world...
To unite the hearts of every
person in every kingdom as one,
so we all could
stop you together.
A miracle. They do exist.
Narrator: In a
daring final act,
Gomechan granted Dai his wish,
uniting the hearts and minds of
every person around the world.
Now, without only
moments remaining,
Deroline, Apollo, and
the others race to freeze
the remaining Black Cores.
But as Vearn goes to trigger
the explosions himself,
a brilliant light
envelops the continents.
When the clocks run out,
will miracles or
catastrophe prevail?
Discover the fate of the
Surface World, next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"Dai's Decision".